{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf360
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww19580\viewh14580\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Readme for jape v7_d9  (and some later versions: you can discover the precise version by looking at the Jape splash screen, or it's in the console window, on the first line).\
\

\b 1. What's different?\
\

\b0 Logic encodings have to declare their intention to allow multiple hypothesis selection (and at present only natural deduction and Hoare logic do that, so you can now only make single hypothesis selections in all other encodings).\
\
It has proven too difficult to maintain the technology needed to produce Universal binaries; we now do only Intel binaries. \
Jape works on Snow Leopard and Lion on intel machines, and may well work on Mountain Lion  (we would be interested to know).\
\
\
Some reorganisation of code so that it's possible to develop with Eclipse.\
\
\
Some minor bugs fixed in the Hoare logic encoding.\
\

\b 2. Beware!
\b0 \
\
Usual moans.\
\
2.1. It will have bugs. Life is like that. But it doesn't have many bugs ...\
\
2.2. Please, please, please report bugs, deficiencies, infelicities and moans to richard@bornat.me.uk\
\
2.3. We develop and run on the latest Mac OS X on intel hardware. If it doesn't work for you on a less modern system, please let us know.\
\

\b 3. Installation\
\

\b0 3.1 Copy the application and the examples folder anywhere you like.\
\

\b 4. Font installation\
\

\b0 4.1 Jape runs straight out of the box using the fonts which come with OS X. These days many available fonts have all the glyphs we need.\
\

\b 5. Launching\

\b0  \
5.1 Double-click Jape, then use the File menu to open a theory (.jt) file. (We are working on reconstituting the appropriate behaviour when you drop a theory file on a Jape icon)\
\

\b 6. Editing examples files\

\b0 \
Unicode editing ought to be easy on Mac OS X: long term support for funny fonts, font fall-through implemented so that even if your font doesn't have the turnstile glyph, 
\i some
\i0  font has it, so you can see it even if you are editing in Courier and think you are looking at ASCII. But there's many a slip ...\
\
First of all you must have a decent Unicode font (see above). But you've already done that, cos you can't run Jape without it.\
\
The best text editor that I know for OS X is BBEdit: it's not free, but it works and it writes the (unnecessary but very useful) Unicode BOM at the front of the file.\
\
TextEdit is free and it works well with Lucida Sans Unicode, but it doesn't have any search facility. Oddly, it will recognise and respect a BOM on input but it won't write one on output. Still, at least it's still UTF-8 when you've finished.\
\
The best editor, so far as appearance, respecting BOMs and the like is concerned, is XCode. Drop your examples files on XCode (it's free from Apple, provided you are prepared to 'register as a developer' -- i.e. give them your email and a password -- but it takes an age to download). It reads and writes BOMs properly, so far as I can tell. It shows you all the glyphs in whatever font. Only oddity is that the files I have created in XCode have come out in UTF-16. Jape deals with that, but it confuses CVS mightily. Oh well: at least the encoder I distribute translates the files.\
\
Actually the TeXShop editor gets Unicode fallthrough right. Ho hum.\
\
No doubt this situation will improve. It all seems mighty silly to me.\
\

\b 7. Feedback
\b0 \
\
7.1. Please mail me lots (see 2.2 above).\
\
7.2 If it doesn't work for you, it doesn't work. Tell Richard (I don't say please -- just do it!).\
\
7.3 If it doesn't do what you want it to, tell Richard.\
\
Richard Bornat, 1/ii/2008.\
then\
Bernard Sufrin, 7/v/2012\
\
}